ug: op: Update doc with details on rollback (#508)
foundriesio/docs: source/user-guide/offline-update/offline-update.rst

-----------------------------
Before doing the offline update, make the offline update content accessible on a device, e.g., attach and mount the USB drive.

Use the ``aklite-offline`` CLI utility to perform an offline update.

1. Run ``aklite-offline install [--config <config dir or file>] --src-dir <path to offline update content>``.

2. Run one of :ref:`the post installation actions <Post Install and Run Actions>` depending on the ``aklite-offline install`` result:

>     a. reboot device and invoke ``aklite-offline run [--config <config dir or file>]`` to finalize an ostree installation and start Apps if both ostree/rootfs and Apps are updated;
>     b. restart the Docker Engine (e.g. ``systemctl restart docker``) and invoke ``aklite-offline run [--config <config dir or file>]``  if just Apps are updated.
>     c. reboot device to finalize the previous boot firmware update and go to the step #1 to start the update.
> 
> 3. Reboot a device after running ``aklite-offline run [--config <config dir or file>]`` command if:
> 
>     a. Apps failed to start after update, you must reboot a device to complete the rollback;
>     b. the update includes a boot firmware, you can optionally reboot a device to finalize the boot firmware upgrade.

Reviewer: I tested this today and it all works fine, but I had to scroll up and down in order to find the needed steps and corresponding exit codes. What do you think of something like:
```suggestion
    a. code 100: reboot device and invoke ``aklite-offline run [--config <config dir or file>]`` to finalize an ostree installation and start Apps if both ostree/rootfs and Apps are updated;
    b. code 101: restart the Docker Engine (e.g. ``systemctl restart docker``) and invoke ``aklite-offline run [--config <config dir or file>]``  if just Apps are updated.
    c. code 90: reboot device to finalize the previous boot firmware update and go to the step #1 to start the update.

3. Reboot a device after running ``aklite-offline run [--config <config dir or file>]`` command if:

    a. code 99: Apps failed to start after update, you must reboot a device to complete the rollback;
    b. code 90: the update includes a boot firmware, you can optionally reboot a device to finalize the boot firmware upgrade.
```

Author: done.

> 

Author: fixed in forced push.

> 2. Run one of the post installation actions depending on the ``aklite-offline`` install result:

Reviewer 2: maybe note the return codes are documented below?

Author: There is a note just after the item N3.

Author: I changed it, now, the reference is before.

    ``--src-dir`` - Path to a directory that contains update content downloaded by ``fioctl targets offline-update`` command.

.. _Post Install and Run Actions:

Post Install and Run Actions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``install`` command sets the following exit codes (``echo $?``) that instruct which of the post install actions you should perform:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``install`` and ``run`` commands sets exit codes (``echo $?``) to instruct which of the post install actions you should perform.

The ``install`` command sets the following exit codes:
```

Author: Done.

- *0*: Device already runs the specified target, no update is needed.
- *90*: Reboot is required to complete the previous boot firmware update. After reboot a client should repeat the update attempt from the beginning.
- *100*: Reboot is required to complete installation. After reboot ``aklite-offline run`` must be invoked.
- *101*: Restart of dockerd service is required , e.g. ``systemctl restart docker``. After the restart ``aklite-offline run`` must be invoked.

The ``run`` command sets the following exit codes:

- *0*: Update succeeded.

>     - Device is booted on the updated rootfs and running the updated Apps.

Reviewer: The formatting of these two sections are different in the published page, can we standardize that?

Author: let's how it looks now.

- *0*: Device already runs the specified target, no update is needed.
- *90*: Reboot is required to complete the previous boot firmware update. After reboot a client should repeat the update attempt from the beginning.
- *100*: Reboot is required to complete installation. After reboot ``aklite-offline run`` must be invoked.
- *101*: Restart of dockerd service is required , e.g. ``systemctl restart docker``. After the restart ``aklite-offline run`` must be invoked.

The ``run`` command sets the following exit codes:

- *0*: Update succeeded, a device is booted on the updated rootfs and running the updated Apps.
- *90*: Update succeeded, an optional reboot can be performed to finalize the boot firmware update.
- *99*: Update failed and a device rolled back to the previous version, no reboot is required.
- *100*: Update failed and a device is rolling back to the previous version, reboot followed by ``aklite-offline run`` is required to complete the rollback.
- *110*: Update failed and a device rolled back to the previous rootfs version but failed to determine Apps to run.

> - *120*: Update failed but Target to rollback to is unknown

Reviewer: Minor suggestion to match what's on the note:
```suggestion
- *120*: Update failed to start the updated Apps but Target to rollback to is unknown.
```

.. note::

    If ``aklite-offline run`` command exits with ``110`` or ``120`` codes, then it indicates that

>     ``aklite-offline`` failed to determine the Target to roll back to after a failure to boot on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ``aklite-offline`` failed to determine the Target to rollback to after a failure to boot on
```

    the new rootfs version (``110``) or a failure to start the updated Apps (``120``).
    A user/software around ``aklite-offline`` may want to bring a device to a desired state by itself.

    Specifically, it should start desired Apps if ``110``  is received; since a device is already booted
    on a previous successful rootfs version, no reboot is required.

    If ``120`` is received, then a client can:

    1. Determine a previous successful rootfs version by running ``ostree admin status`` command.
    2. Deploy it by running ``ostree admin deploy <hash>`` command.
    3. Reboot a device and start desired Apps.

    Also, a user/client may decide not to rollback to the previous rootfs version in such the case.
    Device is successfully booted on the updated rootfs and just the updated Apps failed to start.
    Therefore, a user/client can just run the previous version of desired Apps.

    To run desired Apps, a user should remove unwanted App versions from ``/var/sota/reset-apps`` and run ``aklite-apps run`` command.

> 

Author: I am not sure. I think it's going to create even more confusion, questions and support work. I think if it happens then it should be treated as any other general error, e.g. an update can just fail with a generic error.

I incline towards removing this text/doc at all.

> 

Author: It's not so easy to produce working shell script; it requires storing a state and it's use-case specific, different customer will implement it differently depending on requirements. For example, some of them may wanna implement a systemd one-shot service that runs `aklite-offline run` command if `aklite-offline install` was invoked before reboot.

> 

Reviewer 2: maybe not fully-working/supported but we need to somehow capture the choices/options you are telling me here in the docs. maybe some pseudo code for one specific case? I'm just not sure a user could read this doc and build a working solution without a lot of help?

> 

Reviewer: @mike-scott had some ideas on creating a reference service for this (whole offline update process), we have an internal ticket to start with a flowchart for this.

> 

Author: >maybe some pseudo code for one specific case? 

I think the pseudo code is fine. I think two bash scripts, one for install, and another for run makes sense. Each of these scripts will be correct in terms of bash syntax, however they should not be considered as a working solution if bound together.

> 

Author: The goal of this PR is to align the doc to this changes https://github.com/foundriesio/aktualizr-lite/pull/231 which mostly is about a few additional exit codes related to rollback and bootloader update.

Other improvements seem like out of scope of the given effort.
